
# Table of Contents

1.  [Functions](#org71e0bc3)


<a id="org71e0bc3"></a>

# Functions

These are my custom functions. I define them all here. If I want them
assigned to a keybinding I do so later in the config.

This function is to be run in `dired`. It prompts for a regular
expression and only shows the files or directories that match the
provided regular expression. This is good for working in directories
with lots of files. Think `ls -al | grep -E <expression>`.

    (defun dired-show-only (regexp)
      "Display files in the current directory that match the given
    regular expression."
      (interactive "sFiles to show (regexp): ")
      (dired-mark-files-regexp regexp)
      (dired-toggle-marks)
      (dired-do-kill-lines))

This function is used to terminate all TRAMP connections and to kill
all buffers associated with TRAMP connections. Sometimes I'll have a
lot going on, machines I'm no longer working on, too many buffers to
sort through and this helps.

    (defun go-local ()
      "Destroy all TRAMP connections and kill all associated
    buffers. Be aware that this will destroy local sudo/root TRAMP
    sessions."
      (interactive)
      (ignore-errors (tramp-cleanup-all-connections))
      (ignore-errors (tramp-cleanup-all-buffers)))

This, in my opinion, is how Emacs should behave by default when saving
files. Strip all white space from the end of the file and the ends of
lines before saving.

    (defun save-buffer-clean ()
      "Strip the trailing whitespace from lines and the end of the
    file and save it."
      (interactive)
      (delete-trailing-whitespace)
      (save-buffer))

Again, another function to get what I would like to be default
behavior. This one handles killing buffers. If there is more than one
buffer and I kill one, kill its window too.

    (defun smart-buffer-kill ()
      "If there is more than one buffer visible in the frame, kill the buffer and
    its associated window."
      (interactive)
      (if (= (count-windows) 1)
          (kill-buffer)
        (kill-buffer-and-window)))

This function allows you to quickly elevate your privileges to
`root`. If called without a prefix you will be placed in dired at `/`,
if you call it with a prefix the current file will be reloaded and
accessed as `root`.

    (defun become-root (&optional prefix)
      "Elevate persmissions to root using TRAMP. If run without a
    prefix, place the user at the root of the file system in
    dired. If run with a prefix open the current file with elevated
    permissions."
      (interactive "P")
      (if prefix
          (find-file (concat "/sudo:root@localhost:" buffer-file-name))
        (dired "/sudo:root@localhost:/")))

This is one I don't use very often but can be useful. Copy the SSH
public key to the clipboard.

    (defun ssh-clip ()
      "Copy '~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub' to clipboard. This will first empty
    the kill-ring (clipboard)"
      (interactive)
      (if (= (count-windows) 1)
          (let ((origin (current-buffer)))
    	(setq kill-ring nil)
    	(find-file "~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub")
    	(mark-page)
    	(kill-ring-save (point-min) (point-max))
    	(kill-buffer)
    	(message "Public key copied to clipboard"))
        (let ((origin (current-buffer)))
          (setq kill-ring nil)
          (find-file-other-window "~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub")
          (mark-page)
          (kill-ring-save (point-min) (point-max))
          (kill-buffer)
          (switch-to-buffer-other-window origin)
          (message "Public key copied to clipboard"))))

This function will open an `eshell` buffer named after the current
directory

    (defun eshell-here ()
      "Opens up a new shell in the directory associated with the
    current buffer's file. The eshell is renamed to match that
    directory to make multiple eshell windows easier."
      (interactive)
      (let* ((parent (if (buffer-file-name)
    		     (file-name-directory (buffer-file-name))
    		   default-directory))
    	 (height (/ (window-total-height) 3))
    	 (name   (car (last (split-string parent "/" t)))))
        (split-window-vertically (- height))
        (other-window 1)
        (eshell "new")
        (rename-buffer (concat "*eshell: " name "*"))))

This function will open `shell` using the full frame.

    (defun full-frame-shell ()
      "Opens `shell' in a full frame."
      (interactive)
      (shell)
      (delete-other-windows))

This function will toggle both the vertical and horizontal scroll
bars. Sometimes it's useful when reviewing large log files and using a
mouse to scroll.

    (defun toggle-bars (arg)
      "Toggle both horizontal and vertical scroll bars."
      (interactive "P")
      (if (null arg)
          (setq arg
    	    (if (frame-parameter nil 'vertical-scroll-bars) -1 1))
        (setq arg (prefix-numeric-value arg)))
      (modify-frame-parameters
       (selected-frame)
       (list (cons 'vertical-scroll-bars
    	       (if (> arg 0)
    		   (or scroll-bar-mode default-frame-scroll-bars)))
    	 (cons 'horizontal-scroll-bars
    	       (when (> arg 0) 'bottom)))))

This function will update the config from my github repository.

    (defun update-config ()
      "Pull the config from github, load and byte-compile it."
      (interactive)
      (async-shell-command "cd ~/.emacs.d && git pull")
      (find-file (concat user-emacs-directory "init.org"))
      (org-babel-tangle)
      (load-file (concat user-emacs-directory "init.el"))
      (byte-compile-file (concat user-emacs-directory "init.el")))

This function will use the gnome-screenshot tool to grab an area
screenshot, create a directory named after the current buffer, save
the screenshot inside that directory, and link to it in the current
buffer.

    (defun my-org-screenshot ()
      "Take a screenshot into a time stamped unique-named file in a
    directory named after the org-buffer and insert a link to this
    file."
      (interactive)
      (if (file-directory-p (concat buffer-file-name ".d"))
          (message "Directory already exists")
        (make-directory (concat buffer-file-name ".d")))
      (setq filename ;; do this first, if exit code is non 0 then do not proceed
    	(concat
    	 (make-temp-name
    	  (concat (buffer-file-name)
    		  ".d/"
    		  (format-time-string "%Y%m%d_%H%M%S_")) ) ".png"))
      (setq relative-filename
    	(concat "./" (mapconcat 'identity
    				(nthcdr (- (length (split-string filename "/")) 2)
    					(split-string filename "/")) "/")))
      (call-process "gnome-screenshot" nil nil nil "--area" "-f" filename)
      (insert (concat "[[" relative-filename "]]"))
      (org-display-inline-images))

This function changes the options passed to `ls` that are used to generate the `dired` output.

    (defcustom list-of-dired-switches
      '("-lh" "-lah")
      "List of ls switches for dired to cycle through.")
    
    (defun cycle-dired-switches ()
      "Cycle through the list `list-of-dired-switches' of swithes for ls"
      (interactive)
      (setq list-of-dired-switches
    	(append (cdr list-of-dired-switches)
    		(list (car list-of-dired-switches))))
      (dired-sort-other (car list-of-dired-switches)))

This configuration is to help handle progress bars in `eshell`. Shamelessly stolen from [here](https://oremacs.com/2019/03/24/shell-apt/).

    (advice-add
     'ansi-color-apply-on-region
     :before 'ora-ansi-color-apply-on-region)
    
    (defun ora-ansi-color-apply-on-region (begin end)
      "Fix progress bars for e.g. apt(8).
    Display progress in the mode line instead."
      (let ((end-marker (copy-marker end))
    	mb)
        (save-excursion
          (goto-char (copy-marker begin))
          (while (re-search-forward "\0337" end-marker t)
    	(setq mb (match-beginning 0))
    	(when (re-search-forward "\0338" end-marker t)
    	  (ora-apt-progress-message
    	   (substring-no-properties
    	    (delete-and-extract-region mb (point))
    	    2 -2)))))))
    
    (defun ora-apt-progress-message (progress)
      (message
       (replace-regexp-in-string
        "%" "%%"
        (ansi-color-apply progress))))

This function will take you directly to the scratch page.

    (defun go-to-scratch ()
      "Quickly go to scratch page."
      (interactive)
      (switch-to-buffer "*scratch*"))

